Book 10:
Odysseus describes how they reached the island of the wind god, Aeolus, who gave them a wind bag to help them get home. When they 
were close to home, Odysseus’s men opened the wind bag, sending them right back to Aeolos’ island. Then, they reached the land of 
the Laestrygonians, who destroyed the entire fleet except for Odysseus’s ship. Reaching the island of Circe, Odysseus’s men were 
turned into pigs by the enchantress, with Odysseus managing to beat Circe with a charm given by Hermes. They left for the 
Underworld to find the prophet Teiresias on Circe’s instruction.<br><br>

Book 11:
In the Underworld, Odysseus meets with Teiresias, hearing warnings of touching Helios’s cattle, his homecoming and the one last 
journey he would have to make. After being interrupted with praise from Queen Arete after speaking of his conversation with 
Teiresias about his mother, Anticlea, and other noblewomen, King Alcinous urges Odysseus to continue speaking of his conversations 
with Greek heroes, such as Agamemnon and Achilles.<br><br>

Book 12:
Odysseus continues to speak of his return to Circe’s island and her words of cautious. How he heard the Sirens’ songs when passing 
by them, tied to the mast. Their fight between Charybdis, the whirlpool, and Scylla, who killed six of Odysseus’s men. At the 
insistence of Eurylochus, the second in command, they landed on Thrinacia, the island of Helios, and ended up stranded there for a 
month due to storms. After slaughtering Helios’s cattle against Odysseus warning, while he was sleeping, they attempt to escape, 
only to be caught by Zeus who drowns everyone but Odysseus, who ends up on Calypso's island.<br><br>

Book 13:
The Phaeacians brought Odysseus to Ithaca and left him sleeping on the shore. On their return, Poseidon turned their ship to stone. 
Athena comes to Odysseus in disguise, telling him of the events unfolding at home. Odysseus conceals his identity, lying about 
killing he killing Idomeneus' son on Crete and fleeing the island after the Trojan War. Once Athena reveals her identity, she 
advises Odysseus on how to overcome the suitors and disguises him as an old beggar.<br><br>

Book 15:
Urged by Athena, Telemachus leaves Sparta, and sailing home from Pylos, taking Theoclymenus, a fugitive prophet, with him. At 
Ithaca, Eumaeus urges the disguised Odysseus to wait for Telemachus before going to beg from the suitors at the banquet. Eumaeus 
answers questions about his home, his father and tells Odysseus about being kidnapped by a Phoenician servant, enslaved and 
purchased by Laertes. All while, Telemachus reaches Ithaca and manages to evade the suitors’ ambush.<br><br>

Book 17:
Telemachus returns to his home, telling Penelope of his journey, with the seer, Theoclymenus, prophesying Odysseus’ imminent 
return. Odysseus, disguised as a beggar, goes to his home with Eumaeus. Meeting Argos, Odysseus’ old dog, who recognizes Odysseus 
before he dies of old age. Odysseus begs from the suitors, telling them false stories of his adventures. Antinous, the leader of 
the suitors, abuses Odysseus, hurling a stool at him. Eumaeus tells Penelope of the “stranger” and his stories.<br><br>